# option-greek-estimation-comparison

This was a summer research project I conducted for the University of California San Diego titled "Undergraduate Summer Research Award".  I was awarded $7,500 to do a deep dive into a research topic of my choice.  I chose to do an empirical study that compared the efficacy of different estimation techniques for option greeks under the Black-Scholes model.

In this project, you will see an implementation of a variety of financial mathematics tools such as a Black-Scholes deterministic implementation, Black-Scholes Monte Carlo pricing, pathwise estimation, likelihood ratio, and finite differences with resimulation.  I have compiled this data into a dataframe and observed an instability for theta and rho for the likelihood ratio methodology when an option is in the money.  I have found that the finite difference with resimulation methodology proved to be the most accurate but computationally intensive.  The pathwise estimator followed closely behind the finite difference method but requires continuity in the payoff function, and lastly the likelihood ratio method was least accurate and requires the underlying probability distribution to be known and continuous.  I am still unsure if the likelihood ratio's method instability is a fault of my implementation of the model or if the model exhibits instability because of moneyness conditions.  This may be worth looking into.

The graphs represented in this are not representative of the actual output.  The code takes multiple days to run depending on the parameters that you input.  The code up until the graphs will run quickly and then it will start to get extremely slow and time consuming. (If I were to continue this project the next step would be to introduce antithetic and control variates).
